### Research Question
How have low income residents been displaced by real-estate development in LA Chinatown? What demographics have been most affected?
### Introduction (Significance)
In Fall 2022, our group members began a partnership with Chinatown Community for Equitable Development (CCED) in Marques Vestal’s Histories and Theories of Planning class. The partnership was to assist CCED in their work to prevent displacement of current Chinatown residents by providing information on key Chinatown players, legislative tracking, and spacial data mapping. As a group, we have decided to continue our research on Chinatown and hope our efforts can provide CCED with the information needed to adequately plan actions. Chinatown is currently one of the hottest locations for development, especially for market-rate housing, so our efforts are especially timely as gentrification and displacement occur at rapid rates. As all five of our group members are connected to the larger Asian diaspora, we believe institutions like Chinatown are important places to protect for the cultural institutions they offer, especially in our time of growing anti-Asian violence. 
### Scope of Work 
This project seeks to understand migration flows in and out of Los Angeles Chinatown over the span of 20 years, from 2000 to 2020. We are specifically interested in “gentrification” which is “a process of neighborhood change that includes economic change in a historically disinvested neighborhood —by means of real estate investment and new higher-income residents moving in – as well as demographic change – not only in terms of income level, but also in terms of changes in the education level or racial make-up of residents,” as defined by [UC Berkeley’s Urban Displacement Project](https://www.urbandisplacement.org/about/what-are-gentrification-and-displacement/). Gentrification is identified as a catalyst for involuntary displacement, through eviction and decreasing affordability of housing, and is observed to impact many of Chinatown’s residents. Our research will thus identify and track changes in demographic indicators such as income, educational attainment, and race of residents over the years of interest. 
### Focus Area 
Chinatown Community for Equitable Development (CCED) is an anti-gentrification organization based in Chinatown. Chinatown lies on the edge of Downtown Los Angeles and is bounded by I-110, Los Angeles River, and Dodger Stadium (or Elysian Park). CCED organizes tenants and works in coalition across Los Angeles, especially in gentrifying neighborhoods near Chinatown.
This project will focus on Chinatown and the adjacent neighborhoods of Echo Park, Lincoln Heights, and Elysian Park ([neighborhood boundaries](https://services5.arcgis.com/7nsPwEMP38bSkCjy/arcgis/rest/services/LA_Times_Neighborhoods/FeatureServer) as defined by the [Los Angeles Times’ Mapping LA](https://maps.latimes.com/neighborhoods/) project).
### Intended Analysis and Visualizations
We hope to produce several heat-map like visualizations each measuring one parameter (ie household income, race/ethnicity, education level, age) over a 20-year period, with 4 maps each spread about by 5-year periods corresponding to American Community Survey data. Additionally, we would like to produce a time series analysis with calculations of how populations have changed over time in our neighborhoods of interest: Chinatown, Lincoln Heights, Elysian Heights, and Echo Park. We draw inspiration for map layouts and definitions from UC Berkeley’s Urban Displacement Project, linked above. Additionally, in partnership with CCED we hope to zoom in on specific past market rate developments and their impact on neighborhood communities - we plan to use UCLA’s geocoder tool for this purpose. 
### Data Sources and Links
- City of Los Angeles GeoHub, Los Angeles Times Neighborhood Boundaries ([Link](https://geohub.lacity.org/datasets/d6c55385a0e749519f238b77135eafac_0/explore?location=34.020320%2C-118.410084%2C10.71))
- 2012-2016 American Community Survey (5-Year Estimates), by Block Groups ([Link](https://www.socialexplorer.com/data/ACS2012_5yr_COMP/metadata/))
- 2017-2021 American Community Survey (5-Year Estimates), by Block Groups ([Link](https://www.socialexplorer.com/data/ACS2012_5yr_COMP/metadata/))
### Conclusions - Anticipated Research Outcomes
Our hypothesis is that, over the past 20 years, we can observe significant levels of displacement in the low-income population, which, according to HUD, is the population below 80% area median income. In the four areas of interest, we expect to observe changes such as decentralization of income and race of residents, as well as increasing gross rent and numbers of real-estate development spots in these areas. In conclusion, our research intends to visualize levels of gentrification in Chinatown and its adjacent neighborhoods, so that CCED and real-estate developers can propose mitigation strategies to create an equitable environment for Chinatown residents.
### Group Repo
https://github.com/dominique-ong/up221-group-project
